content/develop/api-reference/caching-and-state/session_state.md, before:

---
title: Session State
slug: /develop/api-reference/caching-and-state/jt.sessionstate
description: Jt.sessionState is a way to share variables between reruns, for each user session.
---

<Tip>

This page only contains information on the `Jt.sessionState` API. For a deeper dive into Session State and how to use it, check out [Session State](/develop/concepts/architecture/session-state).

</Tip>

<Autofunction function="Jt.sessionState" />


{/*
# Session State

Session State is a way to share variables between reruns, for each user session. In addition to the ability to store and persist state, Streamlit also exposes the ability to manipulate state using Callbacks. Session state also persists across apps inside a [multipage app](/develop/concepts/multipage-apps).

Check out this Session State basics tutorial video by Streamlit Developer Advocate Dr. Marisa Smith to get started:

<YouTube videoId="92jUAXBmZyU" />

### Initialize values in Session State

The Session State API follows a field-based API, which is very similar to Python dictionaries:

```python
# Initialization
if 'key' not in st.session_state:
    st.session_state['key'] = 'value'

# Session State also supports attribute based syntax
if 'key' not in st.session_state:
    st.session_state.key = 'value'
```

### Reads and updates

Read the value of an item in Session State and display it by passing to `st.write` :

```python
# Read
st.write(st.session_state.key)

# Outputs: value
```

Update an item in Session State by assigning it a value:

```python
st.session_state.key = 'value2'     # Attribute API
st.session_state['key'] = 'value2'  # Dictionary like API
```

Curious about what is in Session State? Use `st.write` or magic:

```python
st.write(st.session_state)

# With magic:
st.session_state
```

Streamlit throws a handy exception if an uninitialized variable is accessed:

```python
st.write(st.session_state['value'])

# Throws an exception!
```

![state-uninitialized-exception](/images/state_uninitialized_exception.png)

### Delete items

Delete items in Session State using the syntax to delete items in any Python dictionary:

```python
# Delete a single key-value pair
del st.session_state[key]

# Delete all the items in Session state
for key in st.session_state.keys():
    del st.session_state[key]
```

Session State can also be cleared by going to Settings → Clear Cache, followed by Rerunning the app.

![state-clear-cache](/images/clear_cache.png)

### Session State and Widget State association

Every widget with a key is automatically added to Session State:

```python
st.text_input("Your name", key="name")

# This exists now:
st.session_state.name
```

### Use Callbacks to update Session State

A callback is a python function which gets called when an input widget changes.

**Order of execution**: When updating Session state in response to **events**, a callback function gets executed first, and then the app is executed from top to bottom.

Callbacks can be used with widgets using the parameters `on_change` (or `on_click`), `args`, and `kwargs`:

**Parameters**

- **on_change** or **on_click** - The function name to be used as a callback
- **args** (_tuple_) - List of arguments to be passed to the callback function
- **kwargs** (_dict_) - Named arguments to be passed to the callback function

Widgets which support the `on_change` event:

- `st.checkbox`
- `st.color_picker`
- `st.date_input`
- `st.data_editor`
- `st.file_uploader`
- `st.multiselect`
- `st.number_input`
- `st.radio`
- `st.select_slider`
- `st.selectbox`
- `st.slider`
- `st.text_area`
- `st.text_input`
- `st.time_input`
- `st.toggle`

Widgets which support the `on_click` event:

- `st.button`
- `st.download_button`
- `st.form_submit_button`

To add a callback, define a callback function **above** the widget declaration and pass it to the widget via the `on_change` (or `on_click` ) parameter.

### Forms and Callbacks

Widgets inside a form can have their values be accessed and set via the Session State API. `st.form_submit_button` can have a callback associated with it. The callback gets executed upon clicking on the submit button. For example:

```python
def form_callback():
    st.write(st.session_state.my_slider)
    st.write(st.session_state.my_checkbox)

with st.form(key='my_form'):
    slider_input = st.slider('My slider', 0, 10, 5, key='my_slider')
    checkbox_input = st.checkbox('Yes or No', key='my_checkbox')
    submit_button = st.form_submit_button(label='Submit', on_click=form_callback)
```

### Serializable Session State

Serialization refers to the process of converting an object or data structure into a format that can be persisted and shared, and allowing you to recover the data’s original structure. Python’s built-in [pickle](https://docs.python.org/3/develop/pickle.html) module serializes Python objects to a byte stream ("pickling") and deserializes the stream into an object ("unpickling").

By default, Streamlit’s [Session State](/develop/concepts/architecture/session-state) allows you to persist any Python object for the duration of the session, irrespective of the object’s pickle-serializability. This property lets you store Python primitives such as integers, floating-point numbers, complex numbers and booleans, dataframes, and even [lambdas](https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#lambda) returned by functions. However, some execution environments may require serializing all data in Session State, so it may be useful to detect incompatibility during development, or when the execution environment will stop supporting it in the future.

To that end, Streamlit provides a `runner.enforceSerializableSessionState` [configuration option](/develop/concepts/configuration) that, when set to `true`, only allows pickle-serializable objects in Session State. To enable the option, either create a global or project config file with the following or use it as a command-line flag:

```toml
# .streamlit/config.toml
[runner]
enforceSerializableSessionState = true
```

By "_pickle-serializable_", we mean calling `pickle.dumps(obj)` should not raise a [`PicklingError`](https://docs.python.org/3/develop/pickle.html#pickle.PicklingError) exception. When the config option is enabled, adding unserializable data to session state should result in an exception. E.g.,

```python
import streamlit as st

def unserializable_data():
		return lambda x: x

#👇 results in an exception when enforceSerializableSessionState is on
st.session_state.unserializable = unserializable_data()
```

<Image alt="UnserializableSessionStateError" src="/images/unserializable-session-state-error.png" clean />

<Warning>

When `runner.enforceSerializableSessionState` is set to `true`, Session State implicitly uses the `pickle` module, which is known to be insecure. Ensure all data saved and retrieved from Session State is trusted because it is possible to construct malicious pickle data that will execute arbitrary code during unpickling. Never load data that could have come from an untrusted source in an unsafe mode or that could have been tampered with. **Only load data you trust**.

</Warning>

### Caveats and limitations

- Only the `st.form_submit_button` has a callback in forms. Other widgets inside a form are not allowed to have callbacks.
- `on_change` and `on_click` events are only supported on input type widgets.
- Modifying the value of a widget via the Session state API, after instantiating it, is not allowed and will raise a `StreamlitAPIException`. For example:

  ```python
  slider = st.slider(
      label='My Slider', min_value=1,
      max_value=10, value=5, key='my_slider')

  st.session_state.my_slider = 7

  # Throws an exception!
  ```

  ![state-modified-instantiated-exception](/images/state_modified_instantiated_exception.png)

- Setting the widget state via the Session State API and using the `value` parameter in the widget declaration is not recommended, and will throw a warning on the first run. For example:

  ```python
  st.session_state.my_slider = 7

  slider = st.slider(
      label='Choose a Value', min_value=1,
      max_value=10, value=5, key='my_slider')
  ```

  ![state-value-api-exception](/images/state_value_api_exception.png)

- Setting the state of button-like widgets: `st.button`, `st.download_button`, and `st.file_uploader` via the Session State API is not allowed. Such type of widgets are by default _False_ and have ephemeral _True_ states which are only valid for a single run. For example:

  ```python
  if 'my_button' not in st.session_state:
      st.session_state.my_button = True

  st.button('My button', key='my_button')

  # Throws an exception!
  ```

  ![state-button-exception](/images/state_button_exception.png)

*/}

Commit message:

Update: at note about browser refresh behaviour (#728)
* Update: at note on browser refresh behavior

Add note in the caveat section about state resetting when browser refreshed.

* Tweak wording

---------

Co-authored-by: Debbie Matthews <debbie.matthews@snowflake.com>

content/develop/api-reference/caching-and-state/session_state.md, after:

---
title: Session State
slug: /develop/api-reference/caching-and-state/jt.sessionstate
description: Jt.sessionState is a way to share variables between reruns, for each user session.
---

<Tip>

This page only contains information on the `Jt.sessionState` API. For a deeper dive into Session State and how to use it, check out [Session State](/develop/concepts/architecture/session-state).

</Tip>

<Autofunction function="Jt.sessionState" />


{/*
# Session State

Session State is a way to share variables between reruns, for each user session. In addition to the ability to store and persist state, Streamlit also exposes the ability to manipulate state using Callbacks. Session state also persists across apps inside a [multipage app](/develop/concepts/multipage-apps).

Check out this Session State basics tutorial video by Streamlit Developer Advocate Dr. Marisa Smith to get started:

<YouTube videoId="92jUAXBmZyU" />

### Initialize values in Session State

The Session State API follows a field-based API, which is very similar to Python dictionaries:

```python
# Initialization
if 'key' not in st.session_state:
    st.session_state['key'] = 'value'

# Session State also supports attribute based syntax
if 'key' not in st.session_state:
    st.session_state.key = 'value'
```

### Reads and updates

Read the value of an item in Session State and display it by passing to `st.write` :

```python
# Read
st.write(st.session_state.key)

# Outputs: value
```

Update an item in Session State by assigning it a value:

```python
st.session_state.key = 'value2'     # Attribute API
st.session_state['key'] = 'value2'  # Dictionary like API
```

Curious about what is in Session State? Use `st.write` or magic:

```python
st.write(st.session_state)

# With magic:
st.session_state
```

Streamlit throws a handy exception if an uninitialized variable is accessed:

```python
st.write(st.session_state['value'])

# Throws an exception!
```

![state-uninitialized-exception](/images/state_uninitialized_exception.png)

### Delete items

Delete items in Session State using the syntax to delete items in any Python dictionary:

```python
# Delete a single key-value pair
del st.session_state[key]

# Delete all the items in Session state
for key in st.session_state.keys():
    del st.session_state[key]
```

Session State can also be cleared by going to Settings → Clear Cache, followed by Rerunning the app.

![state-clear-cache](/images/clear_cache.png)

### Session State and Widget State association

Every widget with a key is automatically added to Session State:

```python
st.text_input("Your name", key="name")

# This exists now:
st.session_state.name
```

### Use Callbacks to update Session State

A callback is a python function which gets called when an input widget changes.

**Order of execution**: When updating Session state in response to **events**, a callback function gets executed first, and then the app is executed from top to bottom.

Callbacks can be used with widgets using the parameters `on_change` (or `on_click`), `args`, and `kwargs`:

**Parameters**

- **on_change** or **on_click** - The function name to be used as a callback
- **args** (_tuple_) - List of arguments to be passed to the callback function
- **kwargs** (_dict_) - Named arguments to be passed to the callback function

Widgets which support the `on_change` event:

- `st.checkbox`
- `st.color_picker`
- `st.date_input`
- `st.data_editor`
- `st.file_uploader`
- `st.multiselect`
- `st.number_input`
- `st.radio`
- `st.select_slider`
- `st.selectbox`
- `st.slider`
- `st.text_area`
- `st.text_input`
- `st.time_input`
- `st.toggle`

Widgets which support the `on_click` event:

- `st.button`
- `st.download_button`
- `st.form_submit_button`

To add a callback, define a callback function **above** the widget declaration and pass it to the widget via the `on_change` (or `on_click` ) parameter.

### Forms and Callbacks

Widgets inside a form can have their values be accessed and set via the Session State API. `st.form_submit_button` can have a callback associated with it. The callback gets executed upon clicking on the submit button. For example:

```python
def form_callback():
    st.write(st.session_state.my_slider)
    st.write(st.session_state.my_checkbox)

with st.form(key='my_form'):
    slider_input = st.slider('My slider', 0, 10, 5, key='my_slider')
    checkbox_input = st.checkbox('Yes or No', key='my_checkbox')
    submit_button = st.form_submit_button(label='Submit', on_click=form_callback)
```

### Serializable Session State

Serialization refers to the process of converting an object or data structure into a format that can be persisted and shared, and allowing you to recover the data’s original structure. Python’s built-in [pickle](https://docs.python.org/3/develop/pickle.html) module serializes Python objects to a byte stream ("pickling") and deserializes the stream into an object ("unpickling").

By default, Streamlit’s [Session State](/develop/concepts/architecture/session-state) allows you to persist any Python object for the duration of the session, irrespective of the object’s pickle-serializability. This property lets you store Python primitives such as integers, floating-point numbers, complex numbers and booleans, dataframes, and even [lambdas](https://docs.python.org/3/reference/expressions.html#lambda) returned by functions. However, some execution environments may require serializing all data in Session State, so it may be useful to detect incompatibility during development, or when the execution environment will stop supporting it in the future.

To that end, Streamlit provides a `runner.enforceSerializableSessionState` [configuration option](/develop/concepts/configuration) that, when set to `true`, only allows pickle-serializable objects in Session State. To enable the option, either create a global or project config file with the following or use it as a command-line flag:

```toml
# .streamlit/config.toml
[runner]
enforceSerializableSessionState = true
```

By "_pickle-serializable_", we mean calling `pickle.dumps(obj)` should not raise a [`PicklingError`](https://docs.python.org/3/develop/pickle.html#pickle.PicklingError) exception. When the config option is enabled, adding unserializable data to session state should result in an exception. E.g.,

```python
import streamlit as st

def unserializable_data():
		return lambda x: x

#👇 results in an exception when enforceSerializableSessionState is on
st.session_state.unserializable = unserializable_data()
```

<Image alt="UnserializableSessionStateError" src="/images/unserializable-session-state-error.png" clean />

<Warning>

When `runner.enforceSerializableSessionState` is set to `true`, Session State implicitly uses the `pickle` module, which is known to be insecure. Ensure all data saved and retrieved from Session State is trusted because it is possible to construct malicious pickle data that will execute arbitrary code during unpickling. Never load data that could have come from an untrusted source in an unsafe mode or that could have been tampered with. **Only load data you trust**.

</Warning>

### Caveats and limitations

- Streamlit Session State is tied to a WebSocket connection. When a user reloads the browser tab or navigates using a Markdown link, the WebSocket connection and the associated Session State data are reset.
- Only the `st.form_submit_button` has a callback in forms. Other widgets inside a form are not allowed to have callbacks.
- `on_change` and `on_click` events are only supported on input type widgets.
- Modifying the value of a widget via the Session state API, after instantiating it, is not allowed and will raise a `StreamlitAPIException`. For example:

  ```python
  slider = st.slider(
      label='My Slider', min_value=1,
      max_value=10, value=5, key='my_slider')

  st.session_state.my_slider = 7

  # Throws an exception!
  ```

  ![state-modified-instantiated-exception](/images/state_modified_instantiated_exception.png)

- Setting the widget state via the Session State API and using the `value` parameter in the widget declaration is not recommended, and will throw a warning on the first run. For example:

  ```python
  st.session_state.my_slider = 7

  slider = st.slider(
      label='Choose a Value', min_value=1,
      max_value=10, value=5, key='my_slider')
  ```

  ![state-value-api-exception](/images/state_value_api_exception.png)

- Setting the state of button-like widgets: `st.button`, `st.download_button`, and `st.file_uploader` via the Session State API is not allowed. Such type of widgets are by default _False_ and have ephemeral _True_ states which are only valid for a single run. For example:

  ```python
  if 'my_button' not in st.session_state:
      st.session_state.my_button = True

  st.button('My button', key='my_button')

  # Throws an exception!
  ```

  ![state-button-exception](/images/state_button_exception.png)

*/}
